- [Instructor] Many public attacks on software systems
yield some form of sensitive data leakage.
We usually think of things like injection attacks
as the likely culprit,
but many times that isn't the case.
Many times, leaking data through our exceptions
or logs becomes much more out of sight, out of mind
and can make a system more susceptible.
When talking about sensitive data,
it is important for a developer to understand
what is sensitive within his or her domain.
There are some universal ones,
but sensitive data can also be very specific.
I'm really only going to discuss the major global ones here.
Now, regulatory data is any data that is controlled
by a governmental or regulatory body.
Obviously, this varies by jurisdiction,
but as your applications extend their reach
and your business itself does,
you may be more under the influence
of these regulatory bodies.
Normally, companies have someone on staff
to work these topics,
but a developer needs to at least be aware they exist
and who to contact when he or she has questions.
Personally identifiable information, or PII,
can also vary by locale,
which can add to the challenge of dealing with this topic.
In most parts of the world,
phone number, for instance, isn't PII,
but in some countries it is.
Essentially, PII is anything that can be used
to identify specifically who a person is,
things that are unique to one person
and always unique to that person.
So name generally isn't actually PII
because many people can have the same name,
but email address that's guaranteed to be globally unique
is almost always PII.
Health information should be pretty self-explanatory.
If you collect health data on your customers,
especially in a healthcare-focused company,
you have to be very careful with this data.
There are laws and regulatory agencies
you may also have to deal with,
but you owe your users
to treat any health data as sensitive.
Financial is another one
that may or may not fall under regulatory agencies.
If you're dealing with credit cards, you have to follow PCI,
but there's more than just that.
If you deal with any data about money,
spending habits, investments, or debt,
you need to treat that data with the utmost respect.
System information is one that slips through a lot.
How many error pages have you seen on the web
that let you know details about the system as a whole,
what web server is running, what OS it's running,
what language the code is written in?
And the list goes on and on.
I've even seen stack traces pop up on government sites,
and that really scares me.
If you give an attacker that kind of information,
it makes breaching the system that much easier
because you've narrowed down the scope of the attack vectors
that he or she has to look at.
Finally, we'll talk about data that's confidential.
Now, this can mean so many different things
to different companies, but in the end,
there's usually some set of data
that is confidential to your business.
Competitive advantage, financial, employee data,
among others, can be detrimental if leaked.
Consider just the case
of the next killer product being worked on by your company,
and you're writing a webpage for it,
but instead of hiding that data,
you leak it before the product is even done.
This gives your competition time to catch up
or, worse yet, beat you to market.
Now, there are a number of ways that data can be leaked,
and the list is as long as this course and then some.
Every vulnerability has the risk
of data loss or data leak in the end.
There are a few key areas that we want to discuss, however.
Clearly, open vulnerabilities are on topic.
I'm not necessarily talking
about that injection attack you may be susceptible to.
That's kind of implied here with the risk.
I'm talking about things like vulnerable software being used
after that vulnerability is made public.
We have lots of evidence of these in the industry.
As someone who fell victim
to having my private information leaked
by a major credit processing service recently
because of an open vulnerability that they ignored.
As a developer, you have a responsibility
to actively look at open CVEs
and ensure your software isn't dependent
on a vulnerable system.
Log messages.
Now, how great these can be during an incident.
The things that make them great, however,
also make them a target.
All too often, developers err on the side
of logging too much information
because it makes troubleshooting that much easier.
Issue really isn't logging per se.
It's not being creative
in protecting the data in those logs.
We will talk a lot about this topic
and ways to ensure that you can still use your logs,
but not make them easy to scrape.
Exception data is something
that I've already talked about a bit.
All too often, exceptions have too much information,
or there's too much visibility of the manifestation,
and that puts you at risk.
Again, we're going to talk a lot about this area
and really extend it into error conditions as well.
And the last one that we'll discuss here is open
or lacking security.
Now, this isn't really a Java topic, but it's critical.
I cannot tell you how many databases I've seen
that have default passwords still in use.
Many times, these are in non-production environments,
so it's all about developer ease of access.
The problem becomes, however, when we copy production down
so we can simulate real use cases.
Now our production data is protected
by a default database password.
Essentially, if you're going around security as a developer
to make your job easier.
You're also opening the door for a bad actor to do the same.